{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red205\green205\blue205;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11800\viewh12800\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Ref\
\
https://thepihut.com/blogs/raspberry-pi-tutorials/17789160-backing-up-and-restoring-your-raspberry-pis-sd-card\
\
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\fs32 \cf0 1 - Backup SD card
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Back up your Raspberry Pi's microSD.
\f1 \

\f0 Insert the SD Card into a card reader on your Mac. \'a0\
Open Terminal and enter the following command to locate your SD Card:\

\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
diskutil list\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0 All your disks will be listed.
\f1 \

\f0 Look for your SD card by looking for a disk of the right size and name (for example 16GB like our raspberry pi SD card). 
\f1 \

\f0 Next, in Terminal, enter the following command to create a disc image (.dmg) of your SD Card in your home directory.\

\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
sudo dd if=/dev/disk1 of=~/SDCardBackup.dmg\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0 Wait until the SD card has been completely read; the command does not show any feedback, so wait for the command prompt to reappear in the terminal window once it is complete.
\f1 \
\

\f0 The SD is a 16 GB, this process might take some hours to be completed.\
Meanwhile you can verify how much bytes have been transferred using the command\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ctrl + T
\f0 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 2 - Install dmg image on SD card
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0 If you corrupt your SD you can restore it. \'a0\
Before you can write to the card you have to 'unmount' it\'a0so that the operating system does not try to write to it at the same time.\
\
Insert the SD Card into a card reader on your Mac. \'a0Open Terminal and enter the following command to locate your SD Card:
\f1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
diskutil list\cb1 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Check the name of the SD disk and unmount it\

\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
diskutil unmountDisk /dev/disk2\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Then write the image back to the SD card using the command line.\
If the .dmg file is in the desktop\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f3\fs22 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\cb2 sudo dd bs=1m if=/Users/chevalvert/Desktop/170403-murmur-etopia-adaptation.dmg of=/dev/disk2\
\cb1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \cb2 sudo dd bs=1m if=/Users/chevalvert/Desktop/retropie-4.3-rpi2_rpi3.img of=/dev/disk2\cb1 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The process of writing the image back to the SD card can be long and last some hours to be completed (our microSD is 16 GB).\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 Meanwhile you can verify how much bytes have been transferred using the command\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ctrl + T
\f3\fs22 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Wait for the command prompt to reappear in the terminal window once it is complete. Once it has finished writing the image to the SD card, you can remove it from your Mac using
\f1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
sudo diskutil eject /dev/rdisk2\cb1 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
}